look out is the first song of the record
as you mentioned there was an early
early version of that song shorter
though right
I don't even know I can't even remember
really yeah I mean I know that it exists
but like yeah can you talk a bit about
that song because I think it's you know
I don't know how you feel about the word
pop but if there's a song in the album
that's popular you know that was
certainly probably qualify I'm gonna try
away from that word because what that
means to me is you know there's a lot
you know every word like I keep saying
things are cheesy but they're true you
know it's like every word has all these
different connotations to but what pop
means to me is like relevant
it doesn't mean catchy
it doesn't mean a certain sound it means
something that whether consciously or
unconsciously it has the ability to
appeal to more than just one type of
person and like short for popular
obviously and like pop art is a genre of
art that's basically like we're going to
take popular culture and reconfigure it
and mess with it and give it back to
itself and just kind of play with it but
like so I have no problem with it was
that it was that word and in a way like
I I like that you know I like to be able
to hear someone say like that a song is
pop because I know that it's still
totally not pop in the way that like
Britney Spears is pop or anything but
it's just pop in the way that like it's
not esoteric for a small audience of
people that already know about it it's
for anyone to check out and discover and
like many kinds of people can appreciate
it and that's not something you can
really set out to create that if we can
create that by doing what we do then
that's like really good I think well
it's a varied record in that I think
that the first probably three or four
tracks are and I won't use the word then
but I'll say that they are more calm
right and more sort of kind of hook
driven and then there's this mid section
to the latter part of the record that is
more jammy and more kind of open and you
know what I'm hesitating any kind of
characterization because I don't need it
because I'm you know you can say yeah I
think it's I think it's interesting I
think that it's the first third of the
record doesn't necessarily prepare you
for what's to come
you know that's like bait you know yeah
it's like real you it's like the Beatles
had to wear suits and ties and then all
of a sudden they could have really long
hair and admit that they took acid you
know it's like they can think they
wouldn't have made it you know not to
compare to the Beatles but it's like a
good example of pop culture and rock and
roll and like a lot of the time like
getting your foot in the door so people
will listen to you and then showing them
the thing that might they might not be
ready for before they are introduced to
it was something that they can kind of
get one so I you know it's not very
deliberate or thought-out in the
sequencing of the record but I do think
like you know there's a lot to what we
do a lot of our songs there's a lot of
the like you said like jams and stuff
that are you know if that was the first
song on the record someone of today was
a really short attention span and might
like tune it out too quickly but you
know you can draw them in with something
that they're not going to get bored with
and then they're in the world that we
created and then they can see all these
other sides of it that that's like a
still not a strategy or anything but it
is it makes sense to me that you know
that you want to build if you're
introducing something to people that
don't know anything about it that you
want to initiate that into it rather
than wait into it
right like taking the most you know
taking the most you know the nother word
another loaded word like the most
psychedelic or like the most like cosmic
or whatever like song that's like ten
minutes long they're putting that first
on the record wouldn't really make sense
but it's still not really too much
thought out but right I think in a lot
of ways like it's just really
interesting to be involved in in you
know to be coming from me personally at
least such an underground place but to
be trying to engage not the mainstream
but just like people that don't know
about it yeah yeah and that's kind of
like who it's for in a way as people
that not people that know all these
other records and stuff but people that
are gonna find out about it and have no
idea what it is and it's like it's
interesting because I feel like as much
as you know the reflexive comparison is
going to be too heavy blues or
psychedelic blues of forty years ago for
a lot of the record anyway there's also
people are reacting to it is it's very
much a modern record - I don't know if
you guys have any thoughts on sort of
where that comes from that it's not
simply you know recreating something
from of course we wouldn't we wouldn't
waste our time doing that you know but
uh
yeah I mean more influence but I mean
like we enjoy so much different kinds of
music that whatever like comes out of us
like I mean this is like a really
natural band for us like it's there's
not too much of like this is what we are
and we need to try to do this because
this is what we are like we're this kind
of band and like we need to write that
kind of song it's kind of just like what
comes out comes out you know and like
people wanting to say we're you know
well obviously like it is pretty heavy
and everything but like we love all
sorts of different kinds of music so I
mean making a record that's kind of all
over the board a little bit it's like
well those are just kind of the kinds of
songs that we're into mm-hm
and that's why they developed that way
positive you equally do you do you enjoy
it really playing songs that are a
little more a little tighter and more
sort of like you know melody driven as
opposed to the longer jam your ones oh I
love every single thing that we do for
sure or else I wouldn't do it uh-huh
totally or I wouldn't I wouldn't if
there is something that we're jamming on
that needs to be structured a little bit
more because it makes sense for the
better of the song we'll do that but
then there's other songs that if you do
that you're it's almost like you cut
your fingernails too short you know and
then you're kind of like what's going on
you know and so you kind of have to let
it grow out a little bit just let it
have some space and we're in and so and
and that's for the better of that song
you know so it's really like whatever
the song wants not what I want you know
it's whatever it's like when you start
playing the song is telling you
something and it becomes bigger than you
it's like not because it's not my
perspective it's our one sound you know